In this video, we are going to learn about
models in Django. models is used to save the
database information. Each model maps to a
single database table.
Let’s just start coding. Open models.py
file inside app1 directory.
Let’s say we want to create a Friends table.
This table
will save the name & the age of our friends.
The type of name will be CharFields. When
we use CharFields, we need to define max_length.
For the age, we will use IntegerField.
After create a models, we need to makemigrations
and migrate our Django project. Open the command prompt
stop the project by use a combination
key ctrl+c, and then type python manage.py makemigrations
and then python manage.py
migrate.
Okay our database is created successfully.
Let’s Start the project again.
Let’s see that our project still working in browser.
Okay, all of page is still working.
Now I will show you about admin page in Django. This is admin page.
In this page, we can manage our database,
include a Friends database that we just created.
But we don’t have a username & password
yet. Let’s create it first. Open the command prompt
stop the project, and type python
manage.py createsuperuser.
Here we can type your username, for email address, you can
leave it blank. Type your secure password.
If your password is not secure, you will get
a warning like this. In this case, I will
ignore the warning and bypass the password
validation.
Okay, now we have a user.
Don’t forget to run the project again.
Now let’s back to the browser and try to
login to Django admin page using a user that we just created
Good ! Now we are successful
login to Django admin page
but we can’t find Friends database here.
To display friends database to the Django admin
page, we need to register the friend database first.
Open visual studio code and go to admin.py
file, here we need to register our friends database
Firstly import the Friends from
models
and then register it.
Now let’s open Django admin page again.
Here we can see that now we have friends database.
Let’s add some friends to the database.
Okay we have some friends here, but the display
will be Friend object 1, 2, 3 like this.
We want to display the name of our friends instead
just friend object like this.
Open visual studio code again and go to models.py file
we need to create def str like this
and return the name.
Let’s look at Django admin page again.
Cool !
Now we can see the name of our friends.
This is the end of this video. In the next
video, we are going to learn how to display
all of our friend to the hello_world page.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!